Community Spotlight: Reducing search response time by 99.98% with Xata (#170)
xataio/mdx-blog: community-spotlight-reducing-search-response-time-by-99-percent.mdx

---
title: 'Reducing search response time by 99.98% with Xata'
description: 'Putting the spotlight on Parker Dinkins, a young founder with a love for geospatial data who recently launched GISData.io.'
image:
  src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/community-spotlight-reducing-search-response-time-by-99-percent.jpg
  alt: Community Spotlight
author: Alex Francoeur
date: 01-09-2024
tags: ['community']
published: true
slug: community-spotlight-reducing-search-time
ogImage: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/community-spotlight-reducing-search-response-time-by-99-percent.jpg
---

> [Parker Dinkins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-parker-dinkins/), is a young entrepreneur out of Florida. As a self taught developer, he initially founded a startup with some friends back in 2022 called Precision Ecology. It was a digital mapping data solutions company focused on providing data for sustainable development and environmental management. They were flying a [Wingtra](https://wingtra.com/) drone collecting aerial images across large amounts of acreage and Parker was responsible for the processing of the data. This is where he fell in love with geospatial data and GIS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Parker Dinkins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-parker-dinkins/), a Florida-based entrepreneur and self-taught developer, launched his startup, Precision Ecology, in 2022 with a group of friends. The company focused on digital mapping and data solutions, targeting sustainable development and environmental management. They used a Wingtra drone for gathering aerial images over large tracts of land. Parker's responsibility in processing these images led to his deep interest in geospatial data and GIS.
```

> After Precision Ecology didn’t pan out, he decided to go back to to school and study Environmental Studies to focus on GIS. So what does he do when he’s a student back at school? Launch another startup of course.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Precision Ecology didn't pan out, Parker switched gears and went back to school to dig into Environmental Studies and focus his studies on GIS.

So what does an experienced entrepreneur like Parker do when he’s back at school? Launch another startup, of course.
```

If you’re unfamiliar with the GIS world, it is full of disparate data sets, layers, shapes, and point files. Every industry, agency, and region tends to have its own collection of open-source assets available for download and use. This is great because the data is accessible, but navigating through various web entities to find what you’re looking for can be a bit of a pain.

Cue [OpenSourceGISData.com](http://OpenSourceGISData.com) (OSGD), Parker's latest venture. OSGD is a website that contains geoportals and ArcREST servers for all the major federal agencies, states, counties, and cities. After seeing some popularity on Reddit and healthy daily traffic, he feels he scratched an itch for geospatial professionals.

![Open Source GIS Data](/images/cs-osgd.png)

About a year after launching the OSGD website, he officially launched a sister search engine [GISData](https://gisdata.io/). GISData has indexed over 740,000 layers from 1,700 different sources and counting. The goal was to provide a single source of truth where users can search across all disparate data sources. And so far, it’s proven to be a hit.

## An evolving architecture for geospatial data search

> Balancing straight A’s at the University of Central Florida with a budding startup is no easy task, but some how Parker is managing it just fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Balancing straight A’s at the University of Central Florida with a budding startup is no easy task, but somehow Parker is managing it just fine.
```

For a while, he tried [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/), but got lost in their documentation and struggled to implement full-text search for his use case. After a bit more searching (no pun intended), he discovered Xata as an alternative to MongoDB. Paired with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/), he was able to build out the initial powerful geospatial data search experience in a day. Since then, it’s been very easy to continue to iterate and focus on the pipeline with an ever-growing data set.

![Geospatial Search](/images/cs-gis-search.png)

The search behind GISData is built on a modern technology stack. It’s currently using [Dagster](https://dagster.io/) for orchestration, Python for indexing scripts, Xata as the database, JavaScript and [UIkit](https://getuikit.com/) for the frontend and Vercel for application deployment. This stack is optimized for speed and minimal operational maintenance.

## Just getting started

> Parker has a larger vision for this platform beyond the GISData search engine. He’s planning to roll out a free and paid version of the [GIS API](https://docs.gisapi.io/) that enables developers to integrate geospatial data discovery into their own applications. For less technical users, he’s aiming to a create a simple mapping platform where users with little to no experience can find data and create simple maps for their own personal use case. We also discussed the possibility of introducing an AI geo assistant, which is another avenue of monetization. While he’ll likely be focusing on the next few months on foundational elements to support those features, there’s a bright future ahead for the [Omniverse.xyz](https://Omniverse.XYZ) GIS platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parker has a larger vision for this platform beyond the GISData search engine. He’s planning to roll out a free and paid version of the [GIS API](https://docs.gisapi.io/) that enables developers to integrate geospatial data discovery into their own applications. For less technical users, he’s aiming to create a simple mapping platform where users with little to no experience can find data and create simple maps for their own personal use case. We also discussed the possibility of introducing an AI geo assistant, which is another avenue of monetization. While he’ll likely be focusing on the next few months on foundational elements to support those features, there’s a bright future ahead for the [Omniverse.xyz](https://Omniverse.XYZ) GIS platform.
```

---
title: 'Reducing search response time by 99.98% with Xata'
description: 'Putting the spotlight on Parker Dinkins, a young founder with a love for geospatial data who recently launched GISData.io.'
image:
  src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/community-spotlight-reducing-search-response-time-by-99-percent.jpg
  alt: Community Spotlight
author: Alex Francoeur
date: 01-09-2024
tags: ['community']
published: true
slug: community-spotlight-reducing-search-time
ogImage: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/community-spotlight-reducing-search-response-time-by-99-percent.jpg
---

> [Parker Dinkins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-parker-dinkins/), a Florida-based entrepreneur and self-taught developer, launched his startup, Precision Ecology, in 2022 with a group of friends. The company focused on digital mapping and data solutions, targeting sustainable development and environmental management. They used a Wingtra drone for gathering aerial images over large tracts of land. Parker's responsibility in processing these images led to his deep interest in geospatial data and GIS.

Author: ```suggestion
[Parker Dinkins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-parker-dinkins/), a Florida-based entrepreneur and self-taught developer, launched his startup, Precision Ecology, in 2022 with a group of friends. The company focused on digital mapping and data solutions, targeting sustainable development and environmental management. They used a [Wingtra](https://wingtra.com/) drone for gathering aerial images over large tracts of land. Parker's responsibility in processing these images led to his deep interest in geospatial data and GIS.
```
